=pod

=head1 NAME

C<check_procs_multi> - a Nagios plugin similar to check_procs able to
check several processes at once.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

check_procs_multi is a Nagios plugin similar to check_procs able to
check several processes at once.

=head1 VERSION

Version 1.1.0

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 check_procs_multi
            --proc name[,warning_min,warning_max,critical_min,critical_max]
            [--verbose]
            [--version|--help]

 Mandatory arguments:
  --proc           name[,warning_min,warning_max,critical_min,critical_max]
                             process check definition

 Several --proc checks can be specified at the same time
 If only the name of the process is specified check_procs_multi assumes ,1,,1,
 (i.e., critical if no processes are running)
    
 Options:
  --help,-h,-?               prints the usage
  --version,V                print version number
  --verbose,-v               be more verbose (can be repeated)

=head1 REQUIRED ARGUMENTS

--conf

=head1 OPTIONS

    --proc         name,warning_min,warning_max,critical_min,critical_max
                               process check definition

    --help,-h,-?               prints the usage
        
    --version,V                print version number
        
    --verbose,-v               be more verbose (can be repeated)

=head1 EXAMPLE

check_procs_multi --proc crond,1,,1, --proc httpd,1,100,1,200

checks if at least 1 crond process is running and checks that there is
at least 1 httpd process and no more than 200 httpd proceses (gives a
warning at 100)

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

You can specify multiple --verbose options to increase the program
verbosity.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

0 if OK, 1 in case of a warning, 2 in case of a critical status and 3
in case of an unkown problem

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

check_procs_multi depends on

=over 4

=item * Carp

=item * English

=item * File::Slurp

=item * Getopt::Long

=item * Nagios::Plugin

=item * Nagios::Plugin::Threshold

=item * version

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Nagios documentation

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No bugs have been reported.

Please report any bugs or feature requests to matteo.corti@id.ethz.ch,
or through the web interface at
https://svn.id.ethz.ch/trac/bd_webhosting/newticket

=head1 AUTHOR

Matteo Corti <matteo.corti@id.ethz.ch>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007, ETH Zurich.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of GNU general public license (gpl) version 3.
See the LICENSE file for details.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT
WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE LIABLE
TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

